Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the disclosures about forward-looking statements in Item 1 and the section Risk Factors contained in Item 1A. This discussion summarizes the significant factors affecting our consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity and cash flows for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020. Except for historical information, the matters discussed in this Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and are based upon judgments concerning various factors that are beyond our control. Licensing and Brand Management Business We own a portfolio of consumer brands in the active and lifestyle categories, including Jessica Simpson , AND1 , Avia, Joe s and GAIAM . We aim to maximize the value of our brands by promoting, marketing and licensing the brands through various distribution channels, including to retailers, wholesalers and distributors in the United States and in certain international territories. Our core strategy is to enhance and monetize the global reach of our existing brands, and to pursue additional strategic acquisitions to grow the scope of and diversify our portfolio of brands. We aim to acquire well-known consumer brands with high potential for growth and strong brand awareness. We additionally seek to diversify our portfolio by evaluating the strength of targeted brands and the expected viability and sustainability of future royalty streams. Upon the acquisition of a brand, we partner with leading wholesalers and retailers 
 23 

 to drive incremental value and maximize brand equity. We focus on certain key initiatives in our licensing and brand management business. These initiatives include: Maximizing the value of our existing brands by creating efficiencies, adding additional product categories, expanding distribution and retail presence and optimizing sales through innovative marketing that increases consumer brand awareness and loyalty; Expanding through e-commerce channels; Developing international expansion through additional licenses, partnerships and other arrangements with leading retailers and wholesalers outside the United States; and Acquiring consumer brands (or the rights to such brands) with high consumer awareness, broad appeal and applicability to a wide range of product categories. 
 Our business is designed to maximize the value of our brands through license agreements with partners that are responsible for manufacturing and distributing our licensed products. Our brands are licensed for a broad range of product categories, including apparel, footwear and accessories. We seek to select licensees who have demonstrated the ability to produce and sell quality products in their respective licensed categories and have the capability to meet or exceed the minimum sales thresholds and guaranteed minimum royalty payments that we generally require. We license our brands to both wholesale and direct-to-retail licensees. In a wholesale license, a wholesale supplier is granted rights (typically on an exclusive basis) to a single or small group of related product categories for a particular brand for sale to multiple accounts within an approved channel of distribution and territory. In a direct-to-retail license, a single retailer is granted the right (typically on an exclusive basis) to sell branded products in a broad range of product categories through its brick and mortar stores and e-commerce sites. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately one hundred licensees, with wholesale licensees comprising a significant majority. Our license agreements typically require a licensee to pay us royalties based upon net sales and, in most cases, contain guaranteed minimum royalties. Our license agreements often require licensees to support the brands by either paying or spending contractually guaranteed minimum amounts for the marketing and advertising of the respective licensed brands. As of April 13, 2021, we had contractual rights to receive an aggregate of 194.8 million in minimum royalty and marketing and advertising revenue from our licensees through the balance of the current terms of such licenses, excluding any renewal option periods. Reverse Stock Split and Reclassification of Prior Periods On July 27, 2020, the Company s previously announced 1 share-for-40 shares (1:40) reverse stock split (the Reverse Stock Split of the Company s outstanding common stock, par value 0.01 per share became effective. All share and per share amounts in this Form 10-K have been adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split. The stated capital attributable to common stock on the Company s consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2019 was reduced proportionately to the Reverse Stock Split ratio, and the additional paid-in capital account was credited with the amount by which the stated capital is reduced. Prior periods in this Form 10-K have been reclassified to reflect this change. On June 10, 2019, we completed the sale of MSLO, a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, for 166 million in cash consideration, plus additional amounts in respect of pre-closing accounts receivable that are received after the closing, subject to certain adjustments, pursuant to an equity purchase agreement (the Purchase Agreement with Marquee Brands LLC (the Buyer entered into on April 16, 2019. In addition, the Purchase Agreement provides for an earnout of up to 40,000,000 payable to Sequential if certain performance targets are achieved during the three calendar years ending December 31, 2020, December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2022. The performance targets were not met for the year ended December 31, 2020. MSLO and its subsidiaries were engaged in the business of promoting, marketing and licensing the Martha Stewart and the Emeril Lagasse brands through various distribution channels. 
 24 

 Due to the sale of MSLO during the second quarter of 2019 (see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K), in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ASC 205, Discontinued Operations , we have classified the results of MSLO as discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for all periods presented. Additionally, the related assets and liabilities directly associated with MSLO are classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated balance sheets for all periods presented. All amounts included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements relate to continuing operations unless otherwise noted. Recently Issued Accounting Standards Refer to Recently Issued Accounting Standards in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies, Judgments and Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to exercise its judgment. We exercise considerable judgment with respect to establishing sound accounting policies and in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of our assets and liabilities, our recognition of revenues and expenses, and our disclosure of commitments and contingencies at the date of the financial statements. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments. We base our estimates and judgments on a variety of factors, including our historical experience, knowledge of our business and industry and current and expected economic conditions, that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We periodically re-evaluate our estimates and assumptions with respect to these judgments and modify our approach when circumstances indicate that modifications are necessary. While we believe that the factors we evaluate provide us with a meaningful basis for establishing and applying sound accounting policies, we cannot guarantee that the results will always be accurate. Since the determination of these estimates requires the exercise of judgment, actual results could differ from such estimates. A description of significant accounting policies that require us to make estimates and assumptions in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements is as follows: Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue in accordance with ASC 606, (See Notes 2 and 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for related disclosures). ASC 606 requires a five-step approach to determine the appropriate method of revenue recognition for each contractual arrangement: Step 1: Identify the Contract(s) with a Customer Step 2: Identify the Performance Obligation(s) in the Contract Step 3: Determine the Transaction Price Step 4: Allocate the Transaction Price to the Performance Obligation(s) in the Contract Step 5: Recognize Revenue when (or as) the Entity Satisfies a Performance Obligation We have entered into various license agreements for our owned trademarks. Under ASC 606, our agreements are generally considered symbolic licenses, which contain the characteristics of a right-to-access license since the customer is simultaneously receiving the intellectual property IP and benefiting from it throughout the license period. We assess each license agreement at inception and determine the performance obligation(s) and appropriate revenue recognition method. As part of this process, we apply judgments based on historical trends when estimating future revenues and the period over which to recognize revenue. We generally recognize revenue for license agreements under the following methods: 1. Licenses with guaranteed minimum royalties GMRs : Generally, guaranteed minimum royalty payments (fixed revenue) are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract, as defined in each license agreement. 
 25 

 2. Licenses with both GMRs (fixed revenue) and earned royalties (variable revenue) : Earned royalties in excess of fixed revenue are only recognized when we are reasonably certain that the guaranteed minimum payments for the period, as defined in each license agreement, will be exceeded. Additionally, we have categorized certain contracts as variable when there is a history and future expectation of exceeding GMRs. We recognize income for these contracts during the period corresponding to the licensee s sales. 3. Licenses that are sales-based only or earned royalties : Earned royalties (variable revenue) are recognized as income during the period corresponding to the licensee s sales. Payments received as consideration for the grant of a license or advanced royalty payments are recorded as deferred revenue at the time payment is received and recognized into revenue under the methods described above. Contract assets represent unbilled receivables and are presented within accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheets. Contract liabilities represent unearned revenues and are presented within the current portion of deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets. We disaggregate revenue into two categories: licensing agreements and other, which is comprised of revenue from sources such as sales commissions and vendor placement commissions. Commission revenues and vendor placement commission revenue`s are recorded in the period the commission is earned. Intangible Assets. Intangible assets represent trademarks, customer agreements and patents related to our brands. Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but instead are subject to impairment evaluation. On an annual basis (October 1 st and as needed, we test indefinite lived trademarks for impairment through the use of discounted cash flow models. Assumptions used in our discounted cash flow models include: (i) discount rates; (ii) projected annual revenue growth rates; and (iii) projected long-term growth rates. Our estimates also factor in economic conditions and expectations of management, which may change in the future based on period-specific facts and circumstances. Other intangibles with determinable lives, including certain trademarks, customer agreements and patents, are evaluated for the possibility of impairment when certain indicators are present, and are otherwise amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (currently ranging from 2 to 15 years). When conducting our impairment assessment of indefinite-lived intangible assets, we initially perform a qualitative evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that the asset is impaired. If it is determined by a qualitative evaluation that it is more likely than not that the asset is impaired, we then test the asset for recoverability. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to its future discounted net cash flows. If the carrying amount of such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. The Company performed its most recent test as October 1, 2020 and did not identify any impairments. Based upon the results of its annual impairment test performed as of October 1, 2020, Joe s indefinite-lived intangible asset s estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by less than 2 . Management considers the assumptions used in its analysis to be its best estimates across a range of possible outcomes based on available evidence at the time of its annual impairment test. While the Company concluded no impairment triggers existed at December 31, 2020, the Joe s indefinite-lived intangible asset is at risk of future impairment in the event of significant unexpected changes in the Company s forecasted future results and cash flows for the Joe s trademark. As the Company disclosed previously, it is involved in a strategic review of its brands which includes evaluating potential divestitures of its brands. The Company may or may not execute a transaction; however, if it does, the Company would re-examine its intangible asset valuations at that time which may or may not result in a potential impairment. During the quarter ended March 31, 2020, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of 85.6 million consisting of 33.2 million related to the Jessica Simpson trademark, 29.8 million related to the Gaiam trademark, 12.0 million related to the Joe s trademark and 10.6 million related to the Ellen Tracy trademark. The impairments arose due to reduced sales forecasts and higher discount rates for these brands driven by the financial impacts of COVID-19 and the current economic environment. 
 26 

 Due to the identification of impairment indicators during the quarter ended September 30, 2019, specifically the impairment of certain tradenames due to reduced growth expectations and the impact of licensee transitions for these brands, we performed impairment testing of our indefinite-lived assets at September 30, 2019, which replaced our October 1 st annual test. As a result of our testing, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of 33.1 million consisting of 28.5 million related to the Jessica Simpson trademark and 4.6 million related to the Joe s trademark. Income Taxes . Current income taxes are based on the respective periods taxable income for federal, foreign and state income tax reporting purposes. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and income tax bases of assets and liabilities, using statutory tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. In accordance with ASU No. 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes , all deferred income taxes are reported and classified as non-current. A valuation allowance is required if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Management considers the scheduled reversal of deferred income tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. The Company increased its valuation allowance due to the expected full year net loss and the inability to rely on future forecasted operations due to the volatility in the economic environment caused by COVID-19. See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the increase to our valuation allowance. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act CARES Act was signed into law. The CARES Act contains several new or changed income tax provisions, including but not limited to the following: increased limitation threshold for determining deductible interest expense for corporate taxpayers from 30 of adjustable taxable income to 50 of adjustable taxable income for tax years beginning in 2019 and 2020, class life changes to qualified improvement property (in general, from 39 years to 15 years), acceleration of the ability for corporate taxpayers to recover alternative minimum tax AMT credits, suspension of 80 of taxable income limitation on the use of NOLs for tax years beginning before January 1, 2021 and the ability to carry back NOLs incurred from tax years 2018 through 2020 up to the five preceding tax years. As a result of the CARES Act, it is anticipated that the Company will fully utilize all interest expense that was deferred beginning in 2018 with no additional disallowed interest expense in 2020. The Company had accrued for an AMT credit of less than 0.1 million which was recorded as a receivable as of December 31, 2019; payment of this AMT credit was received during the year ended December 31, 2020. We apply the FASB guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. The guidance clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with other authoritative GAAP and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The guidance also addresses derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company did not have any reserves or accrued interest and penalties recorded through current income tax expense in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes ASC 740 ). Interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions, if any, are recorded in income tax expense. Tax years that remain open for assessment for federal and state tax purposes include the years ended December 31, 2017 through December 31, 2020. Impact of COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in state-government mandated store closures and social distancing measures throughout most of the U.S. As states continue to relax and then tighten restrictions, we are unsure when retail stores will be ordered to close, at what capacity, or how long such periods of store closures will be needed or mandated. For the year ended December 31, 2020, COVID-19 caused a significant reduction in retail stores that remained open, as well as a change in consumer purchasing behavior for specific types of products. Both have led to a reduction in orders from retailers for certain types of products bearing some of our brands, as discussed in Item 1. Even as the vaccines are widely administered, we cannot predict when government restrictions and mandates will be imposed or lifted, or how quickly, if at all, retail stores and customers will return to their pre-COVID-19 purchasing behaviors, so we cannot predict how long our results of operations and financial performance will be impacted. Accordingly, the COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected our fiscal year 2020 and our projected long-term revenues, earnings, liquidity and cash flows. However, the situation is dynamic, and we are not currently able to predict the full impact of COVID-19 on our results of operations and cash flows. In response to COVID-19, we have taken the following actions: 
 27 

 Increasing available cash on hand including utilizing revolver borrowings under the Amended BoA Credit Agreement. We made net revolver borrowings of 14.1 million, excluding lender fees, under the Amended BoA Credit Agreement; Implementing temporary salary reductions across the Company; Obtained a Paycheck Protection Program PPP loan of 769,295 on May 18, 2020 under the CARES Act; Decreasing operating expenses through marketing spend reductions and deferral of non-essential spending; Continuing to evaluate strategic alternatives; and Proactively partnering with our lender base to provide more flexibility. On November 16, 2020, the Company modified the covenants in, and obtained a waiver through December 31, 2020 of defaults under the Amended Wilmington Credit Agreements. The amendments, among other matters, waive existing defaults under the Credit Agreement through December 31, 2020; limit the Company s ability to conduct certain dispositions and make certain restricted payments and investments without the consent of the Wilmington Facility Loan Parties prohibit the repayment of existing indebtedness, the incurrence of new indebtedness of the creation of liens in each case without the consent of the Wilmington Facility Loan Parties; and provide certain information rights and other assurances to the Wilmington Facility Loan Parties, including with respect to the Company s ongoing strategic review process. The amendments also provide that, if the Wilmington Facility Loan Parties under the Credit Agreement continue to be lenders as of April 1, 2021, the Wilmington Facility Loan Parties under the Credit Agreement shall have the right to appoint an independent majority of the Company s Board of Directors (inclusive of Ms. Mazzucchelli and Mr. Dionne, who currently serve as directors of the Company). As of April 1, 2021, the Wilmington Facility Loan Parties continue to be our lenders and, therefore, they have the right to appoint an independent majority of our Board of Directors. The Company s bylaws provide that, effective April 1, 2021, the Board may not increase the number of directors to more than five members. The Company extended its waiver through April 19, 2021. However, as a result of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company is not currently forecasted to be able to comply, in the next twelve months, with certain of the financial covenants under the Amended Wilmington Credit Agreement. If the Company fails to comply with its financial covenants, as modified, a default under the Loan Agreements would be triggered and the Company s obligations under the Loan Agreements may be accelerated. The risk of non-compliance creates a material uncertainty that casts substantial doubt with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. These consolidated financial statements do not reflect the adjustments to the carrying values of assets and liabilities that would be necessary if we were unable to realize our assets and settle our liabilities as a going concern in the normal course of operations. During the first quarter of 2020, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of 85.6 million consisting of 33.2 million related to the Jessica Simpson trademark, 29.8 million related to the Gaiam trademark, 12.0 million related to the Joe s trademark and 10.6 million related to the Ellen Tracy trademark. The impairments arose due to reduced sales forecasts and higher discount rates for these brands driven by the financial impacts of COVID-19 and the current economic environment. Fair value for each trademark was determined based on the income approach using estimates of future discounted cash flows. Discontinued Operations Due to the sale of MSLO during the second quarter of 2019 (see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), we have classified the results of MSLO as discontinued operations in our a consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. The related assets and liabilities directly associated with MSLO are classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated balance sheets for all periods presented. On June 10, 2019, the Company completed the sale of MSLO. During the first quarter of 2019, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of 161.2 million for indefinite-lived intangible assets related to the Martha Stewart and Emeril Lagasse trademarks. The impairments arose during the sale process for the Martha Stewart and Emeril Lagasse brands due to the difference in the fair value as indicated by the sales price as compared to the carrying values of the intangible assets included in the transaction. The sale of the Martha Stewart and Emeril Lagasse brands was approved by the Board of Directors on April 15, 2019, to allow the Company to achieve one of its top priorities in significantly reducing 
 28 

 its debt. These charges are included in the loss from discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. See Note 3, Note 4 and Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Results of Operations Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the years indicated and is derived from our consolidated financial statements: 

Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) 2020 2019 (Dollars) (in thousands) Net revenue 89,811 101,576 (11,765) Operating expenses 53,861 61,671 7,810 Impairment charges 85,590 33,109 (52,481) Gain on sale of assets (4,527) - 4,527 (Loss) income from continuing operations (45,113) 6,796 (51,909) Other expense 5,809 2,107 (3,702) Interest expense, net 48,252 53,760 5,508 Loss from continuing operations before income taxes (99,174) (49,071) (50,103) Benefit from income taxes (3,067) (8,695) (5,628) Loss from continuing operations (96,107) (40,376) (55,731) Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests from continuing operations 7,963 6,036 1,927 Loss from continuing operations attributable to Sequential Brands Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries (88,144) (34,340) (53,804) Loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (1,276) (125,063) 123,787 Net loss attributable to Sequential Brands Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries (89,420) (159,403) 69,983 
 Net Revenue . Net revenue decreased 11.8 million to 89.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to 101.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease in net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 is primarily attributable to certain licensee transitions, lower contractual GMRs for Gaiam , licensee agreements that have expired, as well as the economic impact of COVID-19 which caused supply chain disruptions for our licensees and retail store closures. Operating expenses. Operating expenses decreased 7.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 to 53.9 million compared to 61.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. This decrease was primarily driven by the reversal of bad debt expense of 2.7 million; lower bad debt expense of 2.1 million driven by the absence of a write-off of an outstanding receivable balance from Tommie Copper in 2019; as well as decreases in marketing costs of 10.0 million due to the deferral of non-essential spending in response to COVID; compensation of 5.5 million due to lower headcount, the absence of CEO expense for the fourth quarter of 2020, and lower benefits related expenses; commissions of 1.4 million and business development costs of 0.1 million; legal costs and professional fees of 1.3 million; deal costs and management fees of 1.7 million and contributions of 0.1 million. These decreases were offset by the increases in debt refinancing costs 1.6 million and amortization expense of 15.5 million due to reclassification of the Avia and Ellen Tracy trademarks from indefinite-lived to finite-lived intangible assets. Impairment charges. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of 85.6 million consisting of 33.2 million related to the Jessica Simpson trademark, 29.8 million related to the Gaiam trademark, 12.0 million related to the Joe s trademark and 10.6 million related to the Ellen Tracy trademark. The impairments arose due to reduced sales forecasts and higher discount rates for these brands driven by the financial impacts of COVID-19 and the current economic environment. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of 33.1 million consisting of 28.5 million related to the Jessica Simpson trademark and 
 29 

 4.6 million related to the Joe s trademark. The impairments arose due to reduced growth expectations and the impact of licensee transitions for these brands. Fair value for each trademark was determined based on the income approach using estimates of future discounted cash flows. Gain on sale of assets. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded a gain on sale of asset of 0.9 million related to the sale of the Nevados trademark and a gain on sale of assets of 3.7 million related to the sale of the Franklin Mint and Linen n Things trademarks. Other expense. Other expense was 5.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to other expense of 2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily due to the loss on our interest rate swaps and loss on lease terminations of 2.9 million. Interest expense, net. Interest expense decreased 5.5 million compared to the prior year. Interest expense, net during the year ended December 31, 2020 includes interest incurred under our loan agreements of 42.6 million, non-cash interest related to the amortization of deferred financing costs of 6.7 million, and non-cash interest income of 1.0 million related to the accretion of the present value of certain payment arrangements . Interest expense, net during the year ended December 31, 2019 includes interest incurred under our loan agreements of 48.2 million, non-cash interest related to the amortization of deferred financing costs of 5.6 million, t he expensing of 0.8 million of deferred financing costs as a result of a partial extinguishment on the Revolving and Term loans in accordance with ASC 470 Debt and non-cash interest income of 0.8 million related to the accretion of the present value of certain payment arrangements . Income taxes. The benefit from income taxes in continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 differs from the statutory rate primarily for state, local and foreign jurisdiction taxes offset by taxes attributable to noncontrolling interests and an increase to the valuation allowance. We increased our valuation allowance due to the expected full year net loss and the inability to rely on future forecasted operations due to the volatility caused by COVID-19. The benefit for income taxes in continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 differs from the statutory rate primarily for additional tax benefit attributable to noncontrolling interest offset by non-deductible compensation and an increase in the valuation allowance on state tax attributes. Noncontrolling interest. Noncontrolling interest for the year ended December 31, 2020 represents net loss allocations of 8.8 million to With You, Inc., a member of With You LLC (the partnership between us and Jessica Simpson) and a net income allocation of 0.2 million to JALP, LLC, a member of FUL IP Holdings, LLC JALP, LLC and 0.6 million to Elan Polo International, Inc., a member of DVS LLC DVS LLC ). Noncontrolling interest for the year ended December 31, 2019 represents net loss allocations of 6.2 million to With You, Inc., a member of With You LLC (the partnership between us and Jessica Simpson) and 0.5 million to JALP, LLC, and a net income allocation of 0.7 million to Elan Polo International, Inc., a member of DVS LLC. Discontinued Operations. The Company completed the sale of MSLO during the year ended December 31, 2019. As a result, we have classified the results of MSLO as discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. The related assets and liabilities directly associated with MSLO are classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated balance sheets for all periods presented. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for further discussion. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Refer to Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our borrowings under the Third Amended and Restated First Lien Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent and the lenders party thereto and the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with Wilmington Trust, National Association, as administrative agent and collateral agent and the lenders party thereto. As of December 31, 2020, we had cash on hand, including restricted cash, of 15.5 million and a net working capital balance (defined below) of 24.9 million. Additionally, we had outstanding debt obligations under our loan 
 30 

 agreements of 470.8 million excluding 18.6 million of deferred financing fees. As of December 31, 2019, we had cash on hand, including restricted cash, of 8.3 million and a net working capital balance (defined below) of 11.5 million. Additionally, we had outstanding debt obligations under our loan agreements of 468.2 million excluding 22.2 million of deferred financing fees. Net working capital is defined as current assets minus current liabilities, excluding restricted cash and discontinued operations. As of December 31, 2020, we were fully drawn down under the current revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility ). See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of certain financing transactions consummated by us. See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding certain subsequent events related to our indebtedness. See Item 1a. Risk Factors for further information. At December 31, 2020, the Company was in compliance with the covenants included in the Amended BoA Credit Agreement. On November 16, 2020, due to the occurrence of certain events, the Company entered into the Fifth Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and Limited Waiver (the Fifth Amendment with the Wilmington Facility Loan Parties. The Fifth Amendment modified certain of the covenants in, and provided a waiver through December 31, 2020 of defaults under, the Amended Wilmington Credit Agreement (the Waiver ). The Company received several extensions of the Waiver in the first quarter of 2021. The current extension of the Waiver expires on April 19, 2021 and the Company is negotiating to further extend the Waiver. The Company is also not currently forecasted to be able to comply, in the next twelve months from the date of filing this Form 10-K, with certain of the financial covenants under the Amended Wilmington Credit Agreement. If the Company fails to comply with such financial covenants, or further extend the Waiver, an event of default under the Loan Agreements would be triggered and its obligations under the Loan Agreements may be accelerated. The Company continues to evaluate strategic alternatives, including the divestiture of one or more existing brands or a sale of the Company. The risk of non-compliance creates a material uncertainty that casts substantial doubt with respect to the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern. Further, the Company is negotiating with its lenders to obtain a new waiver for the going concern disclosure included in the unqualified audit opinion for the year ended December 31, 2020 delivered by our independent registered public accounting firm for our annual audited financial statements. There are no material capital expenditure commitments as of December 31, 2020. Furthermore, due to the COVID-19 outbreak, there is significant uncertainty surrounding the potential impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We are proactively taking steps to increase available cash on hand including, but not limited to, targeted reductions in discretionary operating expenses, obtaining a PPP loan and utilizing funds available under our Revolving Credit Facility. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in state-government mandated store closures and social distancing measures throughout most of the U.S. These actions have caused many retailers carrying our branded products to close in the first and second quarter of 2020, which has affected retailers, as well as our licensees who sell to these retailers. As states continue to relax and then tighten restrictions, we are unsure when retail stores will be ordered to close, at what capacity, or how long such periods of store closures will be needed or mandated. The impacts of COVID-19 have adversely affected our near-term and long-term revenues, earnings, liquidity and cash flows as certain licensees have requested temporary relief or deferred making their scheduled payments. Although there is significant uncertainty in the current economic environment, we currently believe that cash from operations and our currently available cash (as a result of borrowings under our existing financing arrangements, including under the PPP) will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated working capital requirements for at least twelve months from the date of filing this Form 10-K. The CARES Act contains several new or changed income tax provisions, including but not limited to the following: increased limitation threshold for determining deductible interest expense for corporate taxpayers from 30 of adjustable taxable income to 50 of adjustable taxable income for tax years beginning in 2019 and 2020, class life changes to qualified improvement property (in general, from 39 years to 15 years), acceleration of the ability for corporate taxpayers to recover alternative minimum tax AMT credits, suspension of 80 of taxable income limitation on the use of NOLs for tax years beginning before January 1, 2021 and the ability to carry back NOLs incurred from tax years 2018 through 2020 up to the five preceding tax years. As a result of the CARES Act, it is anticipated that the Company will fully utilize all interest expense that was deferred beginning in 2018 with no additional disallowed interest expense in 2020. The Company had accrued for an AMT credit of approximately 0.1 million which was recorded as a receivable as of December 31, 2019; payment of this AMT credit was accelerated under the CARES Act. The Company received the AMT refund as of September 30, 2020. On May 18, 2020, the Company received loan proceeds of 769,295 from a promissory note issued by Bank of America, N.A., under the PPP loan which was established under the CARES Act and is administered by the U.S. Small Business Administration. The term on the loan is two years and the annual interest rate is 1.00 . Payments of principal and interest are deferred for the first six months of the loan. The Company received consent from its lenders under the Amended Wilmington Credit Agreement to apply for the PPP loan. Under the terms of the 
 31 

 CARES Act, PPP loan recipients can apply for and be granted forgiveness for all or a portion of the loans granted under PPP. The Company filed for forgiveness on this loan on November 20, 2020 and believes that the loan will be forgiven. Such forgiveness will be determined based on the use of the loan proceeds for payroll costs, rent and utility expenses and the maintenance of workforce and compensation levels with certain limitations. There is uncertainty around the standards and operation of the PPP, and no assurance is provided that the Company will obtain forgiveness in whole or in part. Cash Flows from Continuing Operations Cash flows from continuing operations for operating, financing and investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are summarized in the following table: 

Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Operating activities (49) (36,914) Investing activities 7,870 166,186 Financing activities (4,961) (176,806) Net increase (decrease) in cash and restricted cash 2,860 (47,534) 
 Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities from continuing operations was less than 0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to net cash used in operating activities from continuing operations of 36.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The 36.8 million increase was primarily attributable to an increase in non-cash items of 110.6 million driven by deferred income taxes and impairment charges and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of 0.7 million and other liabilities of 0.5 million, offset by an increase in net loss of 55.7 million, decrease in accounts receivable of 9.2 million, accounts payable and accrued expenses of 9.7 million, and deferred revenue of 0.4 million on a year-over-year basis. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was 7.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 166.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The 158.3 million decrease was driven primarily by the absence of cash proceeds from the sale of MSLO of 165.9 million in 2019, offset by proceeds from sale of Nevados , Franklin Mint and Linen n Things trademarks of 8.1 million in 2020. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 amounted to 5.0 million, compared to 176.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we made principal repayments of 12.7 million for principal payments and 11.5 million for revolver under our loan agreements in accordance with contractual terms, additions of deferred financing costs of 1.5 million, received proceeds of 0.8 million from Paycheck Protection Program, repurchased of common stock of 0.2 million and made 0.1 million of distributions to certain noncontrolling interest partners. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we made principal repayments of 21.7 million under our loan agreements in accordance with contractual terms as well as repaid 154 million of principal in connection with the sale of MSLO, paid lender fees of 4.6 million related to loan amendments and made 5.4 million of distributions to certain noncontrolling interest partners. Debt As of December 31, 2020, we were party to the Amended BoA Credit Agreement and the Amended Wilmington Credit Agreement, referred to as our Loan Agreements. Refer to Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our borrowings and the terms of these debt facilities. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, our long-term debt, including current portion, was 470.8 million and 468.2 million, respectively, which is presented net 
 32 

 of 18.6 million and 22.2 million of deferred financing fees, respectively, in the consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2020, we were fully drawn down under the current revolving credit facility. We may request an increase in (i) the Revolving Credit Facility and Tranche A Loans as would not cause the consolidated first lien leverage ratio, determined on a pro forma basis after giving effect to any such increase, to exceed 2.80:1.00 and (ii) the Tranche A-1 Loans, as would not cause the consolidated first lien leverage ratio, determined on a pro forma basis after giving effect to any such increase, to exceed (a) with respect to any increase, the proceeds of which will be used solely to finance an acquisition, 3.00:1.00 and (b) with respect to any other increase, 2.90:1.00, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions in the Amended BoA Credit Agreement. We may request one or more additional term loan facilities or the increase of term loan commitments under the Amended Wilmington Credit Agreement as would not cause the consolidated total leverage ratio, determined on a pro forma basis after giving effect to any such addition and increase, to exceed 6.00:1.00, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions in the Amended Wilmington Credit Agreement. We made 24.2 million of principal repayments under our Loan Agreements during the year ended December 31, 2020. Going Concern and Future Capital Requirements The Company is not currently forecasted to be able to comply, in the next twelve months, with certain of the financial covenants under the Amended Wilmington Credit Agreement. The Company has been unable to comply with such covenants in recent fiscal quarters and has needed to obtain amendments of and waivers under its Debt Facilities. The Company extended its waiver through April 19, 2021. The risk of non-compliance creates a material uncertainty that casts substantial doubt with respect to the ability of the Company to continue as going concern. We cannot assure you that our lenders would be willing to negotiate further changes to our financial covenants when necessary. In those circumstances, our lenders could declare the outstanding principal of all of our debt to be due and payable. In that circumstance, we may be required to seek protection under applicable bankruptcy laws. Further, the Company is negotiating with its lenders to obtain a new waiver for the going concern disclosure included in the unqualified audit opinion for the year ended December 31, 2020 delivered by our independent registered public accounting firm for our annual audited financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2020 and 2019, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As a result, we are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements including the respective expected dates of adoption and effects on financial conditions and results of operations. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Smaller reporting companies are not required to provide the information required by this Item 7A. 
 33 
